[MUSIC]
>> Jem: Welcome, I am Jem Young,
this class is about teaching
across the stack for everybody.
But it's from a perspective of a frontend
engineer, so, I, like you, build UIs.
So, everything I say is just only
the relevant data that you need.
There's not gonna be anything extraneous,
nothing you don't need,
but I just want you to be comfortable
working across the Stack.
And we'll get more into what this
class is, kind of an intro, but
if you have any questions,
just ping me or Mark.
Or if I'm going too fast, just tell me to
slow down, and I'll slow it down for you.
All right, let's get started,
yes, my name is Jem Young.
I'm a senior software engineer at Netflix,
I work on the acquisition team.
The short way of putting that is I
work on the front door to Netflix.
So I work on the website, so
I work on sign-up, registration.
Essentially, if you're not logged in to
website, that's what my team controls.
And we work on TV-Y, iOS, Android,
we work across all the platforms.
I work mainly on WebUI, but sometimes I
dabble in, other platforms like that.
I love what I do, I, not only working at
Netflix, cuz I watch a lot of Netflix.
But I love coding, it's something
I'm really passionate about,
the only thing I'm not
passionate about is mornings.
I am not a morning person, so
if you see me over here just like
chugging his Coke cuz I'm trying
to wake up cuz it's still ,what,
7 AM my time,
which I don't wake up that early.
Let's talk a bit about
some serious business.
The slides, in case you lose them later or
you lost the link,
that's jemyoung.com/fefs,
front end full sack.
I guess I should've done
it the other way but
I saw that I was like I'm not changing
my NGINX config I'm too lazy to do that.
If you're using Windows
it's not preferable, but
if you use GitHub for
Desktop that will install a GitHub shell
which has a nice Bash interface
which is pretty sweet.
Windows 10 has Bash built
into it on some level,
I think it's an optional tool probably.
>> Speaker 2: I know I have get Bash,
so I'm not really sure.
>> Jem: Perfect, yeah but it's generally
preferred to use some sort of a Unix
based system but if not Windows will work.
We're not gonna do that much deep dive
on your own personal computer and
all right.
No questions yet, so that's good, so
I want everybody to understand by the end
of this, how does the Internet work?
This is my most favorite interview
question that I ask people sometimes.
I'm not giving you any inside hints,
cuz if you're from Netflix I probably
won't ask you that, but I might.
But it's my favorite question because
it doesn't matter which part of
the stack you're familiar with.
You can answer at least some portion,
this class is about giving you the broad
overview to answer the entire question,
how does the Internet work?
From end to end, but the best part about
this is if you're a backend engineer you
know a lot about the backend.
So you're gonna talk to me about
threading and how the processes work.
If you're a frontend engineer,
you're gonna talk to me about HTTP and
how the TCP packets work in DNS lookups.
If you're a network engineer,
you know way, way more than I do.
And you're gonna talk to me about
all the layers that are involved.
But everybody should know
how the internet works.
We're engineers, we're web engineers,
we build things for the web.
So we should all know how
the internet works, and
by the end of this class,
I guarantee you will know how it works.
Maybe not in an extreme detail, but you'll
be enough to ace any interview question.
So when I say how does the Internet work,
I don't mean this boring
stuff in layer stack.
Anybody who has a CS degree, or
just has too much free time,
has probably seen something like this.
It's called a seven layer model,
and it's so boring.
I learned it in school, and
it's this kind of a dry representation of
how networks worked, and it's [SOUND].
You can look at it if you want,
but I don't recommend it,
don't worry about this.
If you wanna say, very technical,
you're, well, actually,
type of person,
this is how the Internet works.
But, we're not gonna do that, cuz I'm
a front engineer, just like you, so
I wanna tell you how it
works from my perspective.
So, things we're gonna learn today, we're
gonna level up your command line skills.
This class is almost
entirely command lines,
so, if you're just groaning
inwardly right now, I'm sorry.
[LAUGH] It's, command line is not sexy,
you don't build
cool things that you can impress your
friends and show your grandma or whatever.
But this is like the low level
how things get done on the Internet,
or how things get done anywhere.
It's all command line, just like in the
1980s, 2016, command line doesn't change.
We're gonna learn how the Internet works,
the entire thing.
So when you're done,
if you have some great idea, so
if you wanna build I don't know,
Netflix for cats.
You could build that, you can build
anything you want or Netflix for dogs,
I love both of them.
All right,
you can build anything you want.
Every business ever gets started with
an idea and some sort of server, and
by the time you're done you will
have that ability to just go out and
build whatever you want.
And that's what I want,
I want everybody just feel so
powerful just like I have this crazy idea,
and I'm gonna build it.
And you're gonna learn
the tools to do that today.
We're gonna learn how to create and
manage web server.
So I'm gonna tell you some best practices,
not all best practices because server
management is a life-long pursuit of just
excellence and it's so hard to get right.
As we see really, really smart
people getting hacked all the time,
because it's hard to
get these things right.
So I'm gonna tell you just
the high level best practices
on how to kinda not shoot yourself in
the foot, cuz it's really, really easy.
We're gonna create a deploy system for
a Node app.
So because it's front end masters,
we're gonna use Node.
But everything we're gonna learn today
you can use Java, you can use C#,
you can use any sort of back end you want,
Python.
We're using Node cuz well we
all know a bit of JavaScript.
But everything we're gonna
learn is totally hot swappable,
we're gonna learn NGINX, but
you can use Apache if you want.
We're gonna use Node but again you can
use Python or Java or anything you want.
These all just are different parts
that just plug together, by the end,
we're gonna build a really basic web page.
We're not gonna go too in depth on that,
there are better classes that give you
a really,
really deep dive into build a web page.
But by the end, you'll have a server.
You'll have a server that points to
a domain that you could show your friends
and it all works.
So let us get started,
well, getting started.
So this part we're gonna cover domains,
a bit of DNS, command line basics, VIM,
and then for the end of part one,
we're gonna log into a server.
And logging in is kind of the most
crucial part cuz you need a server,
we need to get in there somehow.